---
layout: default
title: Image Properties
parent: Programming Guide
nav_order: 13
---

# Image Properties

Chapter describes image properties.

11.1  Introduction
--------------------------------------

In addition to the pixel data, images occasionally have many other
kinds of data associated with them. These data, known as *properties*,
is a simple database of arbitrary data attached to the images. Each
property is simply an Object with a unique, case-insensitive name.

The properties are arbitrary and depend on the intended application.
JAI provides methods that enable effective use of properties in the
context of an image processing application but, in most cases, leaves
the specification of the property objects themselves to the developer.

Some examples of properties are:

-   Descriptions of exotic shapes, such as hexagonal grids


-   Mapping from digital pixel values to photometric values


-   A defined region of interest (ROI) in the source image

Every node in an image chain may be queried for its properties. The
value of a property at a particular node may be derived by one of the
following mechanisms:

-   It may be *copied* from the node\'s sources. This is the default
    behavior if no other behavior is specified.


-   It may be *produced* by the node from non-property information
    available in the node.


-   It may be *synthesized* by the node from a rendering.


-   It may be *inherited* or produced computationally from the
    properties of the node\'s sources.


-   It may be *set explicitly* by the `setProperty` method in one of
    the appropriate classes: `Planarimage`, `RenderedOp`, or
    `RenderableOp`. Properties of a node may not be set once the node
    has been rendered.

When the value of a property is requested from a node in a rendered
chain, i.e., a `RenderedOp` node, it will be derived from the first of
the following for which it is defined:

The same order of precedence applies in the case of renderable chains,
i.e., RenderableOp nodes, with the exception of item 4, viz.,
properties created within the contextual rendering of the RenderableOp
are not propagated back to the RenderableOp node itself.

There are a couple of important items to note at this point. First,
when a node is created with another node or nodes as its source(s), it
might invoke methods on the source node that force the source node to
be rendered. Consequently properties should be set on a node before it
is used as the source of other operations. Second, the rendering of a
node does *not* inherit the properties of the node itself nor are
properties set on the rendering of the node propagated back to the
node. Image properties are controlled and generated by the
`PropertySource` and `PropertyGenerator` interfaces.


### 11.1.1  The PropertySource Interface

The `PropertySource` interface contains methods from the
`RenderedImage` and `RenderableImage` interfaces that identify and
read properties. `PlanarImage`, `RenderableOp`, and `RenderedOp` all
implement `PropertySource`.

The interface consists of the `getProperty` and `getPropertyNames`
methods familiar from the `RenderedImage` and `RenderableImage`
interfaces.

`PropertySource` is implemented by `ImageJAI`. Since all
RenderedImages used within JAI are descendents of `PlanarImage` which
implements `ImageJAI`, all images may be assumed to implement
`PropertySource`.

**API:** 
|                                   | `org.eclipse.imagen.PropertySource`  |

    String[] getPropertyNames()

:   returns an array of `Strings` recognized as names by this property
    source.


    String[] getPropertyNames(String prefix)

:   returns an array of `Strings` recognized as names by this property
    source that begin with the supplied `prefix`. If the method cannot
    find any property names that match, null is returned.


    Object getProperty(String name)

:   returns the value of a property.
      ------------- -------- ------------------------------------------
      Parameters:   `name`   The name of the property, as a `String`.
      ------------- -------- ------------------------------------------

      : 


### 11.1.2  The PropertyGenerator Interface

The `PropertyGenerator` interface allows you to affect the property
inheritance computation of an operation. A `PropertyGenerator` simply
implements two methods:

-   The `getPropertyNames` method returns a list of the names of all
    available properties.


-   The `getProperty` method returns the value of the property, given
    the property name and a `RenderedOp`.

New `PropertyGenerators` may be added to the `OperationRegistry` to be
applied at a particular operation node. The `OperationRegistry` also
allows an existing property on a node to be suppressed if it is no
longer useful. See [Chapter 14, \"Extending the
API](Extension.doc.html#47285),\" for more information on the
`OperationRegistry`.

**API:** 
|                                   | `org.eclipse.imagen.PropertyGenerato |
|                                   | r`                                |

    String[] getPropertyNames()

:   returns an array of `Strings` naming properties emitted by this
    property generator.


    Object getProperty(String name, RenderedOp op)

:   computes the value of a property relative to an environment of
    pre-existing properties emitted by the sources of a `RenderedOp`,
    and the parameters of that operation.
    *Parameters*:
    `name`
    The name of the property, as a `String`.
    `op`
    The `RenderedOp` representing the operation.
    
:   The operation name, sources, and `ParameterBlock` of the
    `RenderedOp` being processed may be obtained by means of the
    `op.getOperationName`, `op.getSources()`, and
    `op.getParameterBlock()` methods. It is legal to call
    `getProperty()` on the operation\'s sources.


11.2  Synthetic Properties
----------------------------------------------

Certain properties are *synthesized* when a node is rendered. These
synthetic properties are image width (`image_width`), image height
(`image_height`), minimum *x* coordinate (`image_min_x_coord`), and
minimum *y* coordinate (`image_min_y_coord`). All of these properties
have a value of class `java.lang.Integer`. These properties are fixed
and any attempt to set them will result in an error.


11.3  Regions of Interest
---------------------------------------------

The specification of a region of interest (ROI) is a common property
that is supported by all of the standard operators. The ROI is simply
a description of some portion of an image. This description is
propogated, along with the image, through the rendering chain. The ROI
is transformed appropriately (inherited) for all geometric and area
operators. For all other types of operations it is simply copied. The
ROI has no bearing on the processing of image pixels, although in its
rendered form it can be used as input to histogram operations. For
more information, see [Section 6.2, \"Region of Interest
Control](Image-manipulation.doc.html#51458).\"

The ROI may be used as an argument to the `TiledImage.set` and
`TiledImage.setData` methods so as to copy a selected area of a source
or `Raster` into an existing `TiledImage` (see [Section 4.2.2, \"Tiled
Image](Acquisition.doc.html#52363)\"`)`. The ROI may also be used as
an argument to many compositing (see [Section 7.11.2, \"Image
Compositing](Image-enhance.doc.html#61005)\") and statistical
operators (see [Chapter 9, \"Image
Analysis](Analysis.doc.html#55366)\").


11.4  Complex Data
--------------------------------------

The COMPLEX property has value of class `java.lang.Boolean` and
indicates whether the pixel values of an image represent complex-value
data. (A complex-valued image wherein each pixel has N complex
elements contains 2N bands with the real and imaginary components of
the *i*th complex element being stored in bands 2i and 2i + 1,
respectively.) This property may be *produced* by a given node either
with a fixed value or with a value dependent on the parameters of the
node. See [Section 7.9, \"Frequency Domain
Processing](Image-enhance.doc.html#59829).\"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\




\

##### [Copyright](copyright.html) © 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
